---
title: sonoma
date: 2026-02-08
music_link: https://youtu.be/k0ellsn6cKk?si=4HS6jy8PNUUx4GkD
---


Working on sonoma, will come back if I have time. 

---

sonoma应该有的说了, 把一些missing data和table1讲一讲结束. 然后剩下的时间, 我看一下之前plan future的时候写了什么


alright, I think my plan now becomes to do a small project per week on ML topics. So I dont know if I have time to do all these things, I mean first yang does not have much to do I guess, guanghao has twist I should prioritize next week, so that's bad, and I need to do the statsgen HW. Alright, I need to focus everyday and be crazy, like crazy crazy. 

so here is my goal for the everyweek project. 

1. I should spend 2 days to learn all the knowledge I need for a ML topic, like lm, logistic regression, glm, svm, pca, umap, blabla, deep learning, gnn. And for 1-2 days, I am finding a interesting topic and a relevant public tutorial/code/database, preferably real world question with code structure. And I am either going to reproduce the code, or just write a brand new project based on other tutorials/structures, in the final 3 days. Hopefully in the weekend. They should be coded in python. 

topics:

1. linear regression + logistic regression + GLM
2. SVM
3. recommendation system. 

Actually, all of above is waste of time, what I want now is the graph ones, so the topics and lectures and self learning should be about graphs structures. This will make sense. For sonoma, I cant be doing much without asking Anke what further I can do, before he respond to me. What can I do now? probably on twist. 



----


I am very inefficient and I do not want to study, why, because everything is out of control. What is the best way to get back to study or to make myself able to concentrate? it is to make everything in control. 

Now here are the things that are out of control:

First: Yang?

Nah Yang is kind of in control, I finished the work on thursday and I am giving the motif analysis for Meagan next week. I should be able to spend less than 1 day to complete that. And if things goes wrong, I can delay abit, since she is not in a rush. 


Second Guanghao

The two projects are both kind of out of control. Twist is that I have to be familar with procedures, steps, merging data, which seems not as hard as when I preprocess onek1k data, but now that I am thinking about it, if there is 1 or 2 weird bug that drags me hours to fix, then I can hardly deliver the things i should deliver. Plus, it is not just the things Guanghao told me to do, I should do some extra to make the data analysis better. First of all, it is merging the T cells to probably enhance number of FDR genes. But the problem is with the perivian ancestry. Seocnd is the hepatocyte validation, this part is not that hard, but I want to check the other celltypes like the ones with dense coloring in their psuedotime function. Third is to find more analysis to make our paper stronger. This also requires a lot of time. 

The rare disease project, I know where it is going and I think this direction is kind of ok, but the problem is again I am not doing it. I am just waiting and planing instead of doing. So the stress builds up, that mostly coming from I do not know how long it is taking to find a good method suit for our condition. 


Third: capstone

this is for tmr's deliverables. I did not work on it at all, so i do not know what to deliver. But I am told by Anke to do table 1 and I find this missingness problem, which may be ok? but I am not receiving comments from peers, which I deserve it. but is another source of insecurities. 



How to resolve these?

1. Yang: nothing much, not my focus, I am comfortable ig. 
2. Guanghao: start the analysis tonight, get some sleep now and then wake up at 1-2am to work on it. Mainly on hepatocytes, and reproducing the pipeline on server. I should finish hepatocyte validation by today, and integrating t cells data and genotypes by today. I can work on the other celltypes of stem cells data later
   1. 所以方向是:
      1. 不同的immune celltype去做TWAS: NK看一下[这篇文章](https://www-nature-com.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/articles/s41590-024-01883-0)能不能分出来不同的celltype. Monocyte说是比较的linear. 然后[这个](https://www-nature-com.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/articles/s41467-022-31626-4?utm_source=chatgpt.com#Abs1)是另一个NK+EUR ancestry或许可以merge. 关于另一个guanghao [mention的paper](https://www-nature-com.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/articles/s41590-021-00933-1#Sec2), 首先他不是EUR可能result不会好如果integrate去做的话, 其次我觉得要做的话可以直接separately 跑然后就validate两个出来的gene是不是一样的?这个需要我先explore一下这个新的data然后查一下有没有别的paper做这种analysis, 然后再去找guanghao确认一下能不能这么做. 
      2. [尝试一下hepatocyte之s外的别的celltype](https://www.cell.com/cell-genomics/fulltext/S2666-979X(24)00330-6), 比如stroma cells和vascular endothelial cells
      3. cancer我刚刚gpt了一下, 肿瘤微环境情况似乎比较复杂,不能直接被genotype解释, 所以有可能不太能行, 不过可以research一下

[Natural Killer cells demonstrate distinct eQTL and transcriptome-wide disease associations, highlighting their role in autoimmunity](https://www-nature-com.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/articles/s41467-022-31626-4?utm_source=chatgpt.com#Abs1) 这个说不定可以做, 他的genotype和gene expression都是public. 


[scPrediXcan](https://www-sciencedirect-com.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/science/article/pii/S2666979X25001314?utm_source=chatgpt.com)

我需要照着这篇文章, 想一下每一个paragraph都是什么, 然后让suyang把qqplot/TWAS pipeline里面的overlay, 比较TWiST和fastTWiST做一下. 

然后我需要重新做一下FUSION, 因为我记得我跳过了BSLMM?所以我要重新搞一下. 

然后hepatocyte的validation看看之前scpredixcan的证明思路去看guanghao发的那两篇文章. 

3. capstone: start on it tmr and talk to Anke/Bre on slides and presentation. 






